https://codepen.io/sid-oya/pen/mdOvbLR?editors=1100

Sidoney Daley CSS + HTML Practice

1. What is Semantic HTML?

The correct use of HTML to reinforce the meaning of content on a web page, rather than merely define its appearance



2. What is HTML used for?

HTML is used to structure a web page and its content



3. What is an attribute and where do we put it?

Attributes define additional characteristics or properties of the element such as width and height of an image. Attributes are always specified in the start tag (or opening tag) and usually consists of name/value pairs like name="value" . Attribute values should always be enclosed in quotation marks.



4. What is the h1 tag used for? How many times should I use it on a page?

The h1 is an HTML tag that indicates a heading on a website. It should only be used once



5. Name two tags that have required attributes

“Img” and “a”



6. What do we put in the head of our HTML document?

Title



7. What is an id?

An attribute that specifies a unique id for an HTML element



8. What elements can I add an id to?

It is a Global Attribute, and can be used on any HTML element



9. How many times can I use the same id on a page?

Each element can have only one ID
Each page can have only one element with that ID


10. What is a class?

An attribute used to specify a class for an HTML element.



11. What elements can I add a class to?

The class attribute can be used on any HTML element.



12. How many times can I use the same class on a page?

There is no limit



13. How do I get my link to open in a new tab?

Add a target="_blank" attribute to your links (anchor tags)



14. What is the alt attribute in the image tag used for?

The ALT text adds a text description to an image on a Web page, and should be used for all images, graphical bullets, and graphical horizontal rules.



15. How do I reference an id?

The syntax for id is: write a hash character (#), followed by an id name.



16. What is the difference between a section and a div

<section> means that the content inside is grouped and should appear as an entry in an outline of a page whereas <div> does not convey any meaning, aside from any found in its class, lang and title attributes.



17. What is CSS used for?

It is used in describing the presentation of Web pages, including colors, layout, and fonts.

18. How do we select an element? Example - every h2 on the page

HTML <select> element


19. What is the difference between a class and an id? - Give me an example of when I might use each one

Id is only used to identify one single element in HTML.  Id is for single elements that appear on the page for only once example header.
Class can be used to identify more than one HTML element. Class is used for single or multiple elements that appear on the page for once or more than once example paragraphs


20. How do we select classes in CSS?

To select elements with a specific class, write a period (.) character, followed by the name of the class.


21. How do we select a p element with a single class of “human””?

To select elements with a specific class, write a period (.) character, followed by the name of the class - p.hometown


22. What is a parent child selector? When would this be useful?

The ("parent > child") selector selects all elements that are a direct child of the specified element.
To specify style

23. How do you select all links within a div with the class of sidebar?





24. What is a pseudo selector?

A selector that selects elements that are in a specific state, e.g. they are the first element of their type, or they are being hovered over by the mouse pointer. They tend to act as if you had applied a class to some part of your document, often helping you cut down on excess classes in your markup, and giving you more flexible, maintainable code.


25. What do we use to change the spacing between lines?

Use the line-height property in CSS to do so.


26. What do we use to change the spacing between letters?

Letter-spacing property


27. What do we use to to change everything to CAPITALS? lowercase? Capitalize?

The CSS text-transform property


28. How do I add a 1px border around my div that is dotted and black?

.div {
    border: 1px;
    outline-style: dotted;
color: black 
}



29. How do I select everything on the page?

ctrl-A



30. How do I write a comment in CSS?


Start a comment with /*, and end it with */.



31. How do I find out what file I am in, when I am using the command line?


cd filename



32. Using the command line - how do I see a list of files/folders in my current folder?


ls


33. How do I remove a file via the command line? Why do I have to be careful with this?


rm
Don’t want to permanently delete important files



34. Why should I use version control?


Version control is important to keep track of changes — and keep every team member working off the latest version.



35. How often should I commit to github?

Whenever you add a new feature that's worth committing, commit.



36. What is the command we would use to push our repo up to github?


git push


37. Walk me through Lambda's git flow.

Fork the repo on Github
Clone in VS Code
Branch in VS Code
Make changes and add files
Commit changes in VS code
Push commit to Github in VS Code
Pull to the main branch in Github